What's on your radar? Well, one of the more dramatic results to come out with the election that we haven't really fully had a chance to begin to yet was the clear rejection by California voters of affirmative action as a measure in that state, which would have ended the 1990s era ban on the practice of hiring and public university admissions, and it lost in a 15 point landslide. In fact, the only places with majority support for that matter were LA and in and around San Francisco. Rest of the state not having it whatsoever in places like Fresno for example, working class city that's roughly half white and half minority the measure failed by a margin of two to one. Keep in mind two Affirmative Actions failure in California came against the backdrop of many other progressive priorities, finding widespread support for a $15 minimum wage hike in Florida to a tax hike on the wealthy and Arizona to rank choice voting and Alaska. Progressive ballot initiatives overall had a pretty good night. Now, some activists have blamed the wording on the particular affirmative action ballot initiative, but as David Lienhard pointed out over at the times, affirmative action has actually failed in every single state where it has been tested at the ballot. Box over the past 30 years. So clearly, even in the state that votes overwhelmingly and routinely for Democratic candidates that state which went strongly for Bernie Sanders in the primary affirmative action is downright toxic. So what should we take from this? How should we think about it? Well, let's start with this. is an obvious point but often overlooked, a policy's popularity and its merit are two very distinct things. Not only do I have no problem with partisan politicians advocating for some unpopular positions, but I've actually had a lot of contempt for the ones who just follow the poll numbers and don't stick their neck out on anything as a matter of principle. It's easy to think of morally righteous positions, which were completely unpopular at the time, but proven correct, ultimately by history. Bernie, of course, famously was on the unpopular side of a whole lot of issues throughout his career from war to trade to gay rights, and he was correct and righteous in nearly every instance. However, I will say that well, policies should certainly be judged on their merits, rather than their popularity. There's something a little odd and very white savior patronizing about the fact that affirmative action appears to be most popular among white liberals, and viewed with indifference or even contempt among the very racial minorities. It's supposed to aid so the 14 majority Latino counties in California, they all rejected that affirmative action ballot measure every single one of them. If the people that the policy is supposed to benefit and don't actually see the benefit, then what exactly are we doing here? It's like a straight people have been the ones pushing gay marriage while gay people were like, actually, we're good with civil unions, or if it was mostly white people super hyped about a diversity pick for the vice presidential slot just as one theoretical example here. You might reconsider your position if the folks are aiming to help seem very uninterested in the flavor of health that you were actually offering. In fact, the more you dig into the policy, the more it kind of seems like it's about making affluent white people feel good about themselves, and about the elite institutions and environments that they inhabit, much more so than it really is a project of justice. Look. Obviously the largest and most powerful program of affirmative action is for the rich because parents can afford to dole out and make donations to top level schools and benefit from a privilege legacy status not to mention who grew up with the tutors and resources and counselors to get them into those schools to begin with. But that'll lead experience would be so much less enjoyable. If you were truly faced with how completely exclusive the elite trading pipeline really is, and how much more and has to do with your parents bank account than it does with little Johnny's great promise. So diversity has been sold to affluent whites not really as a project with the end goal of justice, although the trappings of that are nice and make them feel really good, but as a sort of lifestyle brand and diversity has also been sold on a strictly transactional level to as something that is actively beneficial to you and your kid and that matters. Here's why. In the podcast, nice white parents they track the multi decade history of one New York City public school, and it was actually kind of remarkable. White parents in the 60s were sold diversity exactly this way as a transaction good for them and their kids. And they lobbied aggressively for the local school board to locate this new public school in a zone right between the white neighborhood and the black neighborhoods so that their kids might attend a diverse school once the school opened. However, none of the white families actually showed up. Why? Because when they were faced with the reality that the black students had been suffering through substandard underfunded schools and were thus behind the white kids. And they realize that debarked diversity could impose some cost on their own children than they were out. Their relationship to diversity was purely transactional. And the second they felt they weren't getting a good deal. They were gone. Affirmative action is the type of program that poses little threat. And only benefits to affluent white liberals is the college admissions version of identity politics were about getting brown faces in high places to make white people feel good that it is about actually addressing the very real problems that it seeks to ameliorate. It's almost axiomatic that any policy supported overwhelmingly by brunch liberals is unlikely to really forge any structural change or justice. But let's look at the data anyway. So affirmative action does in fact marginally improved black and Latino admissions into elite universities, or dramatically CEUs. After affirmative action was banned in California in the 90s, the number of black students at UC Berkeley fell from six or 7% to just 3%. And Latinos make up only about 15% of Berkeley's freshman class even though they are actually majority of public school graduates in that state. So by that metric, affirmative action is successful. But just getting more minorities into high level colleges. That's actually supposed to be the goal. The goal is supposed to be reducing the racial wealth and income gap. And on that metric, affirmative action has been a complete failure. In fact, after generations of racial preferences in college admissions processes, the racial wealth gap is larger now than it was back in 1968. So the policy is not particularly effective. It's politically toxic, and is rejected by voters. everywhere and every time that it's tried, and it fuels racial resentment among the multi racial working class. But you shouldn't just throw up your hands and declare that these massive inequalities between racism between classes have to stand, in fact, any universal programs which disproportionately benefit the poor and the working class are, in fact racial equity programs, as the glossiest points out in Florida, where a $15 minimum wage just past a majority of black and Latino Floridians will benefit as they currently earn less than that rate. He also points out that researchers say 20% of the 1960s decline in the black white wage gap came from the 1966 lifting of the minimum wage. Eliminating college debt would actually disproportionately benefit minorities, black students are more likely to be burdened with college debt and take on larger loads on average than their white counterparts. Look, I can certainly imagine racially targeted policies which may be unpopular, but are just and are worth fighting for and worth dealing with the white racial resentment and backlash over on the merits. However, affirmative action just doesn't make the cut. And those numbers that Iglesias pulled about the way how much minimum wage increases due to alleviate racial inequity, so much more than affirmative action has done over 50 years of being instituted in public universities. It says it all Oh, absolutely. I mean, Matt has done some of the best work on this and I was just actually looking yesterday at this chart that I pulled up the bottom 75% of whites in America have identical wealth as the full black population. So the entire racial wealth gap, as we understand it, is between the top 10% of whites and the top 10% of blacks. Both of those groups hold the majority of wealth, and then that category, same with college degrees. Same with non college degrees. Same with every racial group in America. Are you beginning to sense a pattern? If you break it down by every metric possible? The top 10% owns the majority of the wealth, which means any redistributive policy or Universalist policy, which affects things across the board is going to rise from the bottom 50% up within that category. That is how you solve these problems are beating this drum for a long time against the Identitarian 's because it's just like, This is what a glazier says he says that almost every racial inequality can be greatly Muir ameliorated with normal redistributive policy and Democrats have tied themselves into the knots with the idea that this is not true. And if so, obviously, the alternative I want to be fair are a bunch of Republicans who don't believe in any redistribution or in increasing wages whatsoever. Everything everything's great the meritocracy the American dream. So like, that's fine. I get it. I'm not saying there are a lot of people on the right who hold my position, because they're much more concerned with the debt than they are with any of this. But if you want to solve it, this is the only way that's it well, and that's my thing is like, look, I believe in certain policies, which are not popular, that's fine. And it's one of the things that I do actually admire politicians like it's one of the things I really admired about Andrew Yang, right. He comes up nobody even knew what UBI what his point numbers were, like, everyone's like, we don't know what this is. And if we did, we don't like it. Right. But he was like, No, I did the research. I believe this is the right policy. And he got into the race to advance that ball and it worked. And now we are in a different place in that conversation and it's been incredibly powerful and effective, what he was able to do, so I have respect for that. But it has to be a policy that's actually worth it. And with things like affirmative action, which I do tie into kind of same category of like putting Kamala Harris on the ticket. It's much more about like signaling to the world. How enlightened you are, and then it is about the actual result. And this is like outside of race relations or any of that this is one of my major critiques of mainstream liberals is they care more about their own projection of virtue than they do any ultimate goal or acquisition of power. They don't really care about changing things. They mostly care about projecting that they're good people that they're not racist Look, that's good. I'm glad if you you know, if you're really not racist, that's fantastic. Congratulations, good for you. But if you are actually just looking at the numbers, which policies will move the needle most on the issues you claim to care about your head in the wrong direction, couldn't agree more. All right, next on rising team Ryan's going to talk about California Governor Gavin Newsom. 

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
